# Loops, conditions and parsing

This file contains the highlights from my study of the implementation of the above concepts in bash scripting

## The for loop

The syntax for this loop is:

```bash

for NAME [in LIST]; do COMMANDS; done

```
`NAME` can be any variable name. `LIST` can be any
list of words, strings or numbers, which can be literal or generated by any
command. The `COMMANDS` to execute can also be any operating system commands,
script, program or shell statement.

```bash
for name in best school is alx; do
	echo $name
done
```
if `[in LIST]` is not present, it is replaced with `in $@` and `for` executes
`COMMANDS` once for each positional parameter that is set.

`$@` expands to the positional parameters, starting from one. When the
expansion occurs within double quotes, each parameter expands to a separate
word.

```bash
#!/bin/bash

for i in "$@"; do
	echo "Parameter is $i"
done
```
Another syntax for this loop is:
```bash
for ((expr; expr; expr)); do COMMANDS; done
```

[see more](https://tldp.org/LDP/Bash-Beginners-Guide/html/sect_09_01.html)
## Comparison Operators
The operators used to compare strings are different from the operators used to
compare integers

### integer comparison

- `-eq` : is equal to `if [ "$a" -eq "$b" ]`
[see more](https://tldp.org/LDP/abs/html/comparison-ops.html#EQUALSIGNREF)

## The while loop

## Command list within Parentheses

```bash
( command1; command2; command3;... )
```
> A command list embedded between parenthese runs as a subshell

Variables in a subshell are _not_ visible outside the block of code in the
subshell. They are not accessible to the parent process, to the shell that
launched the subshell. 

## embed linefeed within an `echoed` character string

Set the string to a variable
```bash
mystring="This is the test string"
```
and then pass the variable as an argument to `echo`
```bash
echo $mystring
```

